
## Overview

### Requirements

OpenMethod requires C++17 or above. It depends on the following Boost libraries:

* Assert
* Config
* Core
* DynamicBitset
* Mp11
* Preprocessor

Boost.Test is also required to build and run the unit tests.

### Installation

The library is headers-only. You can install it system-wide, or add the path to
the `include` directory to your project's include path.

### Namespaces

#### boost::openmethod

The library's main namespace. Contains `method`, `virtual_ptr` and
`virtual_ptr_traits`, `use_classes`, the `default_registry`, etc.

#### boost::openmethod::policies

Contains the policy framework.

### Headers

#### <boost/openmethod/core.hpp>

The library's main header. Provides `method`, `virtual_ptr` and
`virtual_ptr_traits`, `use_classes`, the default policy, etc.

If `BOOST_OPENMETHOD_DEFAULT_REGISTRY` is defined before including this header,
its value is used as the default value for the `Policy` template parameter
throughout the code. Otherwise, `boost::openmethod::default_registry` is used.
Setting `BOOST_OPENMETHOD_DEFAULT_REGISTRY` after including the core header has no
effect.

#### <boost/openmethod/macros.hpp>

Provides `BOOST_REGISTER_CLASSES`, `BOOST_OPENMETHOD`,
`BOOST_OPENMETHOD_OVERRIDE` and other macros.

#### <boost/openmethod.hpp>

Convenience header. Includes `<boost/openmethod/core.hpp>` and
`<boost/openmethod/macros.hpp>`.

Also imports `boost::openmethod::virtual_ptr` in the global namespace. This is
usually regarded as bad practice. The rationale is that OpenMethod emulates a
language feature, and `virtual_ptr` is equivalent to keyword, similar to
`virtual`. Besides, the macros are global as well.

There are two ways to avoid importing `virtual_ptr` while still using the
macros:

* Define `BOOST_OPENMETHOD_NO_GLOBAL_VIRTUAL_PTR` before including
  `<boost/openmethod.hpp>`. This disables the import of `virtual_ptr` in the
  global namespace.

* Include `<boost/openmethod/core.hpp>`and `<boost/openmethod/macros.hpp>`.

#### <boost/openmethod/compiler.hpp>

Provides `intialize` and `finalize`. Typically included only by the translation
unit that contains `main`, unless dynamic loading is used in other places in the
program.

#### <boost/openmethod/shared_ptr.hpp>

Provides support for using `std::shared_ptr` in place of plain pointers in
virtual parameters.

#### <boost/openmethod/unique_.hpp>

Provides support for using `std::unique_ptr` in place of plain pointers in
virtual parameters.

#### <boost/openmethod/with_vptr.hpp>

Provides support for storing v-table pointers directly in objects, in the same
manner as native virtual functions.

#### <boost/openmethod/policies.hpp>

Provides the `debug` and `release` policies in the `boost::openmethod::policies`
namespace, and `default_registry` in the `boost::openmethod` namespace, which is
an alias to either `debug` or `release`, depending on the value of the
preprocessor symbol `NDEBUG`.

Usually not included directly. Can be used to create custom policies from stock
policies, by forking them and adjusting a few facets.

#### <boost/openmethod/policies/basic_policy.hpp>

Provides the constructs used in the policy framework, essentially
`basic_policy`, `facet`, and its abstract subclasses (`rtti`, `extern_vptr`,
etc).

#### <boost/openmethod/policies/std_rtti.hpp>

Implements the `rtti` facet using standard RTTI.

#### <boost/openmethod/policies/minimal_rtti.hpp>

Implements the `rtti` facet using a minimal RTTI implementation. Can be used only with the "final" constructs, or with intrusive v-table pointers.

#### <boost/openmethod/policies/vptr_vector.hpp>

Implements the `extern_vptr` facet using a vector of pointers.

#### <boost/openmethod/policies/vptr_map.hpp>

Implements the `extern_vptr` facet using a map of pointers.

#### <boost/openmethod/policies/fast_perfect_hash.hpp>

Implements the `type_hash` facet using a perfect hash function.

#### <boost/openmethod/policies/vectored_error_handler.hpp>

Implements the `error_handler` facet by routing the error through a
`std::function`.

#### <boost/openmethod/policies/throw_error_handler.hpp>

Implements the `error_handler` facet by throwing an exception.

#### <boost/openmethod/policies/basic_error_output.hpp>

Implements the `output` facet using a lightweight version of
`std::ostream`.

#### <boost/openmethod/policies/basic_trace_output.hpp>

Implements the `trace` facet using a lightweight version of
`std::ostream`.
